Dynamic Credit Scoring
Traditional credit scoring can be static and might not reflect the current financial health of a customer. Machine learning can dynamically assess a customer’s creditworthiness based on various factors, offering a more comprehensive view.

Cash Flow Forecasting
By analyzing historical AR data, machine learning can provide more accurate predictions of future cash flows, aiding businesses in better financial planning.

Customer Segmentation and Personalization
Machine learning can segment customers based on their payment behavior, allowing businesses to create personalized strategies for each segment, enhancing the chances of timely payments.

https://hbr.org/2024/03/how-machine-learning-will-transform-supply-chain-management
 We have developed a way to address this deficiency. Our new paradigm uses machine learning and historical data to generate superior recommendations for supply chain decisions. While current machine-learning methods focus on trying to create more-accurate forecasts, ours focuses on making actual decisions. This new methodology, which we call optimal machine learning (OML), involves using artificial intelligence technology to create a mathematical model that takes key data inputs related to the supply chain (the nodes of the network, their locations, sales and shipment transactions, financial parameters, marketing promotions, logistical and capacity constraints, and so on) and links them to planning decisions (what quantities to produce, for example, or what levels of inventory to stock at each location). This model can take into account a company’s priorities (such as the level of customer service it is contractually obligated or wishes to achieve), its budget restrictions, and other resource constraints (such as the availability of materials and labor). The data is stored in a way that enables updating in near real time and quick revision of the calculations that inform decision-making.

There is no single forecast that all parties agree to use for decision-making. At the consumer electronics company, sales managers developed monthly forecasts of aggregate sales, along with forecasts of sales to each retail customer for the upcoming 12-month period. The inventory planning team independently created its own forecast of customer demand, but it did so weekly because inventory orders were typically placed once a week. To manage orders with the consumer electronics company and allocate inventory to its network of stores, each retail customer also developed its own forecast. These customer forecasts often differed significantly from those of the consumer electronics company. Moreover, all the forecasts were made at different points in time and were updated as new information about demand emerged. And the estimates of end-customer demand were often distorted because no one fully understood how marketing promotions implemented by the consumer electronics company or by retailers would affect sales. In situations like this, when multiple forecasts are available, each with its own errors, it is not clear which is the ideal one to use to optimize supply-chain-planning decisions.

Decision-support engine. OML replaces the forecast-based, two-step planning process with a one-step process that connects input data directly to supply chain decisions. The OML methodology incorporates historical data about drivers of demand throughout the supply chain (for example, actual sales transactions and factors that influence them, such as prices, promotions, and the size and composition of the customer base) and drivers of supply (such as supplier inventories, lead times, capacity constraints, and transportation delays). The engine determines the relationship between these supply-and-demand data elements and supply chain decisions about such things as production quantities, replenishment orders, inventory stocking levels, and shipments of inventory between locations in a way that optimizes key performance indicators (KPIs). KPIs might include metrics related to overall profit; revenue or profit by region, customer, or product category; product availability; inventory turns; time needed to recover from a disruption; and so on. Calculations can be recomputed as soon as new data is available or if any changes are made to the supplier network.

End-to-end data architecture. The OML decision-support engine and the digital twin require a data storage system that works in conjunction with all existing database-management systems throughout the supply chain (those for the company’s operations and those of suppliers, distributors, and customers). The storage system should be able to pool data across teams, locations, and products and make it possible to update and access that information in near real time.
The architecture specifies the various data elements to be included, their storage format and organization, linkages between them, and the frequency with which they will be updated. The choice of data to be incorporated should be driven by the analytical representation of the supply chain in the digital twin and should consider input from the managers who best understand the potential drivers of decisions. In other words, the OML approach entails the collection and storage of data that reflects the supply chain structure. We recommend using a graph database that houses the data at nodes in the supply chain (for example, retail stores or wholesale locations) and captures important relationships (for example, which wholesale location supplies which retail stores). This allows meaningful visualization of data and metrics by location, customer, product, or time. It also enables supply chain planners to measure performance for multiple metrics related to cost and service and to identify instances when the observed values fall outside the expected range and require further analysis.
